Recipe - Lists by number of items (#5)
talis/advanced-mis: _recipes/lists-by-number-of-items.md

---
title: Lists by number of items
layout: site
body_class: recipe
keywords: reading lists, items, list analytics, list quality

> description: get information on lists and modules by the number of items or sections they contain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Get information on lists and modules by the number of items or sections they contain.
```

---

## Background
This recipe will sort all lists at your university by the number of items they contain.  The sort of questions you might answer are:

* How many lists have zero or very few items?

> * This may represent lists which need more engagement by list developers to provide useful resources for students.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * This may represent lists which need more engagement by list developers to provide useful resources for students.
```

* Do any lists have particularly high numbers of items?

> * This may indicate lists which are over-enriched with content, and which may discourage student engagement via information overload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * This may indicate lists which are over-enriched with content, and which may discourage student engagement via information overload.
```

---
title: Lists by number of items
layout: site
body_class: recipe

> keywords: reading lists, items, list analytics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: reading lists, items, list analytics, list quality
```

> description: Use reading intentions to show whether students are interacting with lists. Find out which students are interacting with which lists for use in retention metrics.

Reviewer: This description needs updating. Couple of sentences that sum up the broad area addressed by this article.

* How many lists have zero or very few items?
* This may represent lists which need more engagement by list developers to provide useful resources for students.
* Do any lists have particularly high numbers of items?
* This may indicate lists which are over-enriched with content, and which may discourage student engagement via information overload.
* Do particular departments or faculty have longer or shorter lists than an average length?
* Are departments or faculty following list length guidelines that the university may have set?

## Data sources
The data we will be using comes entirely from the ``f_rl_lists`` table, which contains data for all lists at your University.  See the table definition for more information on what content exists within this table.

```redshift
-- To view the table schema in SQL:
DESCRIBE f_rl_lists;
 
-- To view the table schema in PSQL:
\d f_rl_lists
```

## The Query
The query will pull back a selection of fields for every list in the tenancy, and order the lists by item count, descending from highest to lowest number of lists.  It will also exclude any Archived lists.

```redshift

> SELECT url, title, item_count, section_count, status, hierarchy_url, time_period, owner, date_created, last_updated 

Reviewer: See formatting comment further down the file...

status        | Draft
hierarchy_url |
time_period   |
owner         |
date_created  | 2016-01-12 00:00:00
last_updated  | 2016-01-12 00:00:00
-[ RECORD 2 ]-+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
url           | http://broadminster.ac.uk/lists/FF0284F2-D41A-F984-DAB2-E069110ED291
title         | This History of Horticulture on Mars
item_count    | 101
section_count | 17
status        | Published
hierarchy_url | http://broadminster.ac.uk/courses/hhm43
time_period   | 2019/20
owner         |
date_created  | 2017-07-05 00:00:00
last_updated  | 2018-08-31 00:00:00
```
 

## Variations on a theme
Try out some of these modifications to the query:

To change the order from highest-to-lowest, to lowest-to-highest, change the ‘order by line’ to:

```redshift
ORDER BY section_count ASC
```

To list all tables by the number of sections, instead of items, change the ‘order by’ line to:

```redshift
ORDER BY section_count DESC
```

To search only for published lists, modify the “where status !=” line to:
(The available statuses are “Published”, “Draft”, “Archived”, “Published with Unpublished Changes”)

```redshift
WHERE status = 'Published'
```

> If your lists attach to modules in your hierarchy which live under a useful grouping (for example, if all modules are attached to a department) then we can add this grouping to our output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your lists are attached to a level in the hierarchy which has parents —for example, if all modules are attached to a department— then we can add this grouping to our output:
```

```redshift

> SELECT lists.url, lists.title, lists.item_count, lists.section_count, lists.status, lists.hierarchy_url, lists.time_period, lists.owner, lists.date_created, lists.last_updated, modules.url AS department FROM public.f_rl_lists AS lists

Reviewer: I'd encourage this easier to read way of formatting the SQL because it is clear which bits are clauses. It avoids long lines and confusing line wrapping.  Also, apply this formatting to all the multi-line SQL blocks above.

```suggestion
SELECT 
  lists.url, 
  lists.title, 
  lists.item_count, 
  lists.section_count, 
  lists.status, 
  lists.hierarchy_url, 
  lists.time_period, 
  lists.owner, 
  lists.date_created, 
  lists.last_updated, 
  modules.url AS department 
FROM public.f_rl_lists AS lists
```

> LEFT JOIN public.f_rl_hierarchy_descendants AS modules ON modules.descendant_url = lists.hierarchy_url

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LEFT JOIN 
  public.f_rl_hierarchy_descendants AS modules 
  	ON modules.descendant_url = lists.hierarchy_url
```

> WHERE lists.status != 'Archived'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WHERE 
  lists.status != 'Archived'
```

> ORDER BY lists.item_count DESC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ORDER BY 
  lists.item_count DESC
```
